Database security is a huge and
important topic.
In this short video I'll give
you a flavour of how CrateDB
addresses security.
We'll look at controlling access
to CrateDB and encryption of
data in transit and at rest, as
well as other authentication,
authorisation and audit trail
topics.
Let's begin by understanding a
little bit about role-based
access control.
We don't always want everyone to
have the same level of access to
the data stored in the database.
A common way of addressing this
is via Role-Based Access Control
or RBAC.
This is fully supported in CrateDB.
Here I'm creating a role that
we'll call taxi_reader.
Let's first deny that role
access to all tables in the
default doc schema.
Then grant it query access to
the 2 taxi tables named taxis
and taxi_rides.
Now we have a role.
We can assign it to one or more
users.
Let's create a user named taxi_user
and give it a password.
By default, this user has no
privileges.
Giving the taxi_reader role to
our new user grants it the
privileges associated with that
role.
So what can taxi_user access?
Let's find out.
I'm now connected to CrateDB
as the taxi_user.
First, let's try a query against
the taxis table.
As you'd expect, this user is
allowed to execute this query.
What about a query that uses the
311 call data?
This results in an error as the
taxi_user doesn't have the
correct privileges to access
that table.
Remember that we get the taxi
user query rights over the taxi
tables.
This query attempts to modify
the taxis table by adding a new
row.
Is this user allowed to perform
this operation?
No, this insert fails as our
taxi_user lacks the privileges
to perform operations that
modify data.
It's essentially a read only
user with access to the two taxi
tables.
CrateDB supports data
encryption in the following
ways.
For data in transit, both HTTP
and PostgreSQL Wire Protocol
endpoints can be encrypted with
configuration options for the
Postgres endpoint allowing host
based authentication and SSL
enforcement.
Communications between nodes
forming a CrateDB cluster can
also be encrypted.
For data at rest we recommend
the use of encrypted disk
storage and this is of course
the default in our CrateDB
managed cloud service.
Now let's revisit authentication
and authorisation, beginning
with authentication.
We've seen how users can be
authenticated by username and
password.
Authentication by client
certificate is also possible.
Passwords are stored securely
and host based authentication
can be enabled to provide an
additional layer of trust.
This also applies to
communications between nodes in
a CrateDB cluster.
Let's move on to authorisation.
As demonstrated earlier, CrateDB
uses Role-Based Access
Control, or RBAC for fine
grained permissions management
of all aspects of working with
data and administering the
database itself.
How does CrateDB allow you to
keep track of actions performed
by your database and its users?
Queries performed on a CrateDB
cluster are logged in internal
tables.
These can be exported to log
files for future analysis or
integration.
Monitoring information can be
collected and reported using JMX
Java Management Extensions.
This information can then be
forwarded on to other monitoring
tools, for example, Prometheus.
CrateDB maintains the
following security
certifications for its managed
cloud platform.
The ISO IEC 27001 certification
signifies the attainment of the
highest standards in operational
and information security and SoC
two compliance ensures that the
client data is stored and
processed in a secure manner.
This video provided a high level
overview of the various ways
that CrateDB addresses
security.
Of course, this is a huge topic
and it's something you should
plan for and consider carefully
when implementing any database
product.
I recommend you read the
relevant sections of the online
documentation and the CrateDB
Architecture Guide to learn more
about different aspects of
security and how to take
advantage of them.
Furthermore, don't forget you
can always find
us online at community.cratedb.com
our online forums where we're
ready to help answer your
questions.